>> This is "Nuevo."
Shortly before his
death, Walter Haut
wrote a letter
before a notary where
he unveiled all the secrets
surrounding the plan that
was followed to disprove
the case of the alien ship
that crash landed in Roswell.
Today on Nuevo, we present
that plan and the letter.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presents "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.
>> No case in the history of the
extraterrestrial phenomenon has
garnered as many testimonials
as the case of Roswell.
Tom Carey and Don
Schmitt directed
one of the most
thorough investigations
of a similar case.
They were able to speak with
at least 150 direct witnesses
and 600 indirect
witnesses, people
very close to those who were
in contact with this case.
It is a truly
extraordinary story
investigated in every
detail, which we present here
on "Nuevo."
>> Due to the
historical significance
of extraterrestrial research,
firsthand testimonials were
made public by the
SyFy TV network.
Because these important
witnesses have died,
SyFy gave us permission
to present them
in our Nuevo video programs.
Our first comments come from
Lieutenant Jack Trowbridge,
who had the chance to see
firsthand the remains recovered
by the lieutenant of military
intelligence Jesse Marcel.
>> My name is Jack Trowbridge,
and I was assigned to Roswell
in April of 1947.
I was further assigned
into intelligence
with Jesse Marcel, who was the
head of intelligence, a major.
I was a first lieutenant.
We were having bridge
at Major Marcel's home.
He was there in a basket.
My wife was there and
all of intelligence
was there playing
bridge except Jesse.
He was out with a pickup
gathering his junk
in the debris field, OK?
So when you came in it was
fairly late, I believe.
And we broke up the
bridge game then
to go out and see what
Jess had brought in.
And it was of great interest.
It was aluminum in appearance.
There were fragments of
aircraft scanner, whatever
the thing was, and
also some girders
with pictures of
hieroglyphic-like things on it.
I took them to be
owls, but who knows.
Anyhow, it was interesting.
I did get to handle
the material,
and the material had
some peculiar properties.
For instance, it looked
like Hershey bar wrappings.
But you squeeze it up in your
hand as hard as you could, let
go, and it returned originally
to the original shape
instantly.
Then the next day Jesse
brought some of the stuff
into the intelligence office.
And we looked at it and
played with it awhile
and then everybody
went back to work.
Later that day, boom.
Nobody knows anything, shut up,
nothing happened, et cetera.
And when you're in the service,
you do what they say to them.
Major Marcel was
called up to Fort Worth
to show the press what he found.
Well, what he had
to show at the press
was really a weather balloon.
This stuff was not a weather
balloon, what he brought back.
So he was forced to lie
to the press we say.
I don't think he was
too happy about it,
but you do what
you're told, again.
You're in the service.
You follow the orders.
And they were afraid of the
American public panicking
with this knowledge.
I don't think that
would have happened,
but the word came down from up
above and you do what it says.
>> Pat Bush was Miriam
Bush's sister-in-law,
the nurse who had viewed the
bodies of the dead aliens.
Pat said she received
death threats
because of what she knew, and in
the end she died mysteriously.
Her cause of death
was never understood.
>> I'm Pat Bush, and I was
married to George Bush,
the brother of Miriam.
And I am-- her name was Miriam
Titus whenever I knew her.
She worked at the hospital,
at the base hospital.
She was an executive secretary
there, had a high security
rating.
The head of the
hospital there came
to her one evening or
one afternoon and said,
I think there's something
you would like to see.
And he took her down
to the surgical suite
or whatever it was in
the hospital, where
they had brought these beings.
And they took her into
the room and she saw them.
They wouldn't let her
get close to them,
but she stood by the
doorway and looked at them.
As she was looking
at them, one of them
moved its middle
finger on its hand.
The hand moved.
So whatever it was was
living at that time.
She went home that
evening and she
was excited about
what she had seen.
And she sat at the dinner
table and told the family
what she had seen and what
they had told her had happened.
And they were all interested
and asked questions.
And the next day when
she came in from work,
she was very somber
and she just told them,
don't ever mention
what I told you
and don't ever ask
me anything about it.
And she was very frightened.
I felt very sorry
for her because she
lived a very frightened life
because they had told her
not to ever speak
of it again and what
the consequences would be.
And she was frightened her
whole life long about it.
She passed away in
this unusual way.
And we started looking at
things and talking to people
and realizing that many
of the other people that
were involved in it had
died mysterious deaths
or disappearances.
She was in a motel, and she
was not registered at the motel
under her name.
It was registered under
her sister's name,
which is very strange.
And her sister didn't
know she was there.
The authorities came in because
it was the sister's name
and address on the registration,
they called her home
and then she knew that her
sister had passed away.
When the police
came and everything,
they said that it had to be
a suicide, that the door was
locked from inside
like nobody could
lock the door from the inside.
And you know, it was all
kind of-- they skimmed
over the top of it and they
didn't go into any research,
try to find out
anything about her.
It just-- I just don't believe
that she killed herself.
I think somebody else did it.
There was something that
was being covered up
and evidently something
important enough
that they would kill
to keep it a secret.
>> Families received word that
their loved ones who would soon
be on their deathbed
wanted to talk.
This was the case of Walter
Haut, who passed away shortly
after he shared information.
Walter was in charge of
reporting relevant facts
on behalf of the Air Force.
Haut was the one who wrote the
controversial press release
that circulated the world.
>> Story that I put
out was very simple.
It was what Colonel
Blanchard said he wanted put
into a press release.
When the Colonel tells
a first lieutenant
almost verbatim what he wants
in a press release, guess what?
He gets.
You don't argue with
them and say, oh, I
think it'd sound
better if we said
it this way or the next way.
The answer to all was, Yes, sir.
>> So what exactly did
the press release say?
>> In essence, it
was very simple,
to the effect that we had in
our possession a flying saucer.
It was found on a ranch
up north of Roswell.
It was being flown to
General Ramey's office, that
being the next higher command.
That was the 8th Air Force.
And that was the end of it.
Pretty well orchestrated.
I think the thought
of handling it
that way came down from
Washington through channels.
And we were told that we were
all wrong, that it was just
a weather balloon.
>> Shortly before his
death, Walter Haut signed
a declaration before a notary
that was sealed and couldn't be
opened until after his death.
This is his textual
statement that
wasn't made public until after
he died on December 15, 2005.
These are the words from the
affidavit that Walter Haut
signed on December 26, 2002.
Witness-- Chris.
Notary-- Beverly Morgan.
My name is Walter G. Haut.
My address is 1405 West 7th
Street, Roswell, New Mexico.
I am now retired.
In July 1947, I was stationed
at the Roswell Army Air Base
in Roswell, New Mexico, serving
as the base Public Information
Officer.
I had spent the
4th of July weekend
at my private residence about 10
miles north of the base, which
was south of town.
I was aware that
someone had reported
the remains of a downed
vehicle by midmorning
after my return to duty
at the base on July 7th.
I was aware that Major Jesse
Marcel, head of intelligence,
was sent by the base commander,
Colonel William Blanchard,
to investigate.
By late in the
afternoon that same day,
I would learn that
additional civilian reports
came in regarding a second
site just north of Roswell.
I would spend the better
part of the day attending
to my regular duties, hearing
little, if anything, more.
On Tuesday morning,
July 8, I would
attend the regularly scheduled
staff meeting at 7:30 AM.
In addition to
Blanchard and Marcel,
Counterintelligence Captain
Sheridan Cavett and others
were in attendance.
The main topic of discussion was
reported by Marcel and Cavett
regarding an
extensive debris field
in Lincoln County, approximately
75 miles northwest of Roswell.
Blanchard indicated
some brief details
about the second site, located
40 miles north of town.
Samples of the wreckage were
passed around the table.
Walter Haut said they did
not resemble any material
he had ever seen in his life.
Pieces, which resembled metal
foil, thin but extremely
strong material, and
other pieces that
had unusual markings
along their length
all were touched and
handled by each man.
No one could identify the
remains of the crash debris.
One of the main concerns
discussed at the meeting
was whether to go public
or not with the discovery.
General Ramey
proposed a plan, which
I believe originated with
his bosses at the Pentagon.
Attention needed to be diverted
from the more important site
north of town by acknowledging
the other location.
Too many civilians
were already involved
and the press
already was informed.
I was not completely informed
how this would be accomplished.
At 9:30 AM, Colonel
Blanchard called me
and dictated the press release
of having in our possession
a flying disc.
I was to deliver the news
release to radio stations
and newspapers.
By the time news
had hit the wire,
my office was inundated
with phone calls, messages
stacked up.
And rather than deal with
it, Colonel Blanchard
suggested I go home.
Before leaving the
base, Colonel Blanchard
took me personally to Building
84, a B-29 hangar located
on the east side of the tarmac.
Upon first approaching
the building,
I observed that it
was under heavy guard
both outside and inside.
Once inside, I was permitted
from a safe distance
to first observe the object
just recovered north of town.
It was approximately 12
to 15 feet in length,
not quite as wide,
about six feet high,
and more of an egg shape.
Lighting was poor, but its
surface did appear metallic.
No windows, portholes, wings,
tail section, or landing gear
were visible.
Also from a distance, I was
able to see a couple of bodies
under a canvas tarpaulin.
Only the heads extended
beyond the covering
and I was not able to
make out any features.
The heads did appear
larger than normal,
and the contour of the
canvas over the bodies
suggested the size of
a 10-year-old child.
At a later date at
Blanchard's office,
he would extend his arm about
four feet above the floor
to indicate their height.
I was informed of a
temporary morgue set up
to accommodate the
recovered bodies.
I was aware two separate teams
would return to each site
months later for periodic
searches for any remaining
evidence.
I am convinced that what
I personally observed
was some type of craft and
its crew from outer space.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This document, written by
Walter Haut before a notary
to be released after his
death, has great implications,
not only because he is convinced
that the ship and the beings he
saw were not of this world,
because it reveals the plan
of the military to distract
attention from the crash that
occurred north of Roswell, where
a full ship was recovered with
at least four occupants,
one of them alive.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It is unknown if this second
ship was part of the one that
crashed on the forest
ranch of Mac Brasel,
or if it was a second crash
ship that was affected by radars
in the area to protect the
facilities of the Los Alamos
plant, the only place in the
world where atomic bombs were
built during the 1940s.
After publishing news
in the local papers
and attracting the
attention of the media,
the findings were
later discredited,
saying that it was a
meteorological balloon
that the military had
launched for the first time
as an experiment.
This strategy continued
when questioned
about the extraterrestrial
facts that were
presented to the government.
Regardless of the credible
arguments and the evidence
presented, even if the
evidence was proven,
they would continue
to discredit it,
no matter how much
weight it may have had.
The media and public opinion
immediately lost interest
in the story about the aliens.
While the entire world
watched expectantly,
General Roger Ramey
presented the remains
of the meteorological
balloon, bearing witness
to Major Jesse Marcel's report.
We know differently--
that the ship
and the extraterrestrial
corpses from the site located
to the north of the city
were recovered in Roswell.
However, in the same
photographs taken
at the time the
remains of the balloon
were presented to the
media, General Ramey
can be observed holding
a document that today
is known as Ramey's Memorandum.
In that document, what is
written can now be seen.
And thanks to modern
digitized analysis,
two sentences have
been deciphered,
where one reads, and the
victims of the accident.
In the second line
it says, they will
be sent in the saucer ship.
Major Jesse Marcel
remains silent until 1977.
When he retired,
he decided to talk
about his own experience
in an interview
with a local TV
station, Channel 55.
>> They took
pictures, of course.
They had a whole flock
of microphones there.
They wanted me to--
they wanted some
comments from me,
but I wasn't at
liberty to do that.
So all I could do is
keep my mouth shut.
And General Ramey is the
one who discussed, or told
the newspapers, I
mean the newsman, what
it was and to forget about it.
It was nothing more than a
weather observation balloon.
Of course, which we
both knew differently.
>> On July 6, Major Marcel,
accompanied by Brasel
and another person from the
army, went to the forest ranch,
spent the night there, and on
the morning of July 6 arrived
at the scene of the accident,
where the crashed alien ship
was.
>> The following morning we went
out to the site where the crash
was and what I saw
I couldn't believe.
There was so much of it.
It was scattered over
such a vast area.
So we proceeded to pick up as
much of the debris as we could,
load it in our wagon.
We filled that up.
Took us a good part
of the day to do
that because it was
such small fragments
and we had to do
a lot of picking.
We found a piece of
metal about a foot
and a half to two feet wide, and
about two or three feet long.
Felt like you had
nothing in your hands.
It wasn't any
thicker than the foil
out of a pack of cigarettes.
But the thing about that it got
me is that you couldn't even
bend it, you couldn't dent it.
Even with a sledgehammer,
it would bounce off of it.
So I knew that I had never
seen anything like that before.
And as of now, I don't
know what it was.
>> Major Jesse Marcel is
convinced that the material
and the ship was
not from this world.
>> It was not anything from this
Earth, that I'm quite sure of.
Because I was-- being
an intelligence officer,
I was familiar with just about
all materials used in aircraft
and in our air travel.
This is nothing that.
It could not been.
It could not have been.
>> Major Jesse Marcel
was in charge of security
and intelligence for all nuclear
testing in the United States
and in the Pacific Ocean.
Major Marcel, one of the most
significant military witnesses
in this case, died in
1986 at the age of 79
shortly after giving
his exclusive interview.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Why did the witnesses keep
the Roswell incident secret?
Who forced them to remain
silent until, on their deathbed,
they would confess what
they found and experienced?
What really happened
so many years ago?
>> He said, it's
a big old desert.
Nobody will ever
find your bodies.
So we'll just bury
you out there.
Nobody will ever know
you were ever here.
So I promised I
wouldn't talk about it.
>> The government had
told those people,
there's a big desert out there.
You'll never be found.
That's pretty scary,
for your own government
to tell you something like that.
>> We have to continue to go
after the remaining witnesses.
We're running out of time.
Once they're gone, it's gone.
And we have to at least provide
them with an opportunity
to go on the record and tell
us through their eyes what they
saw, have them provide
to us the truth
that each and every one of us on
this planet so richly deserves.
>> This country was based on
the premise that it should be
an open society and that we
should not have a closed one.
And here, we have a
government, supposedly
the servant of the
people and not the people
being subjects of the
government, the people,
of course, being sovereigns and
therefore over the government.
We have the government keeping
it secret all these many years
from the people.
How can we have
the type of system
our founders set up if the
people do not know the truth?
The people have to know the
truth to make proper judgments.
We do not live in a
democracy in this country.
Now, make sure you
understand that one.
We live in a republic,
but the republic
is governed by the people.
And the government is by
the will of those governed.
And the people have
to know the truth
to make the right choices.
That is the whole issue.
That is what it's all about.
You asked the question.
That's the answer.
Does that make any sense?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Roswell could thus become
the second case where a ship was
recovered by the United
States military, in this case,
by the Air Force.
As stated in the
FBI Guy Hottel memo,
three ships were recovered.
A few months later,
on March 25, 1948,
the third ship came down
in the vicinity of Aztec
in New Mexico.
Today, 70 years later, we know
that the United States Army
felt threatened by
beings of unknown origin,
much more advanced
than human beings,
and therefore decided to
remain silent, a silence that
has been kept for 70 years.
I am Jaime Maussan,
and I'll see you
on the next episode of "Nuevo."
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Gaia presented "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.